[DOCU-2363] Konnect release notes (#4076)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/updates.md

: In the Service Hub, graphs for services and routes now show data up to the last 30 days.

**Vitals custom reports** <span class="badge alpha"></span>

: Through the Vitals menu, you can create custom reports to track API calls based on services, routes, or applications.

: See the [custom reports documentation](/konnect/vitals/generate-reports) for more information.

**Custom plugin requirements have changed**
: Some custom plugin limitations have changed or been removed.
See the latest requirements in the [plugin doc](/konnect/servicehub/plugins).

: Custom plugins can't be added directly through the {{site.konnect_saas}} application.
If you have a custom plugin you want to use in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, contact [Kong Support](https://support.konghq.com/).

**Refactored documentation**
: The {{site.konnect_short_name}} documentation has been refactored to match the new {{site.konnect_short_name}} navigation, and generally reworked to provide a better experience for {{site.konnect_short_name}} users.

**Known issues/limitations**
: The `cloud.konghq.com` environment has the following restrictions:

>   * Dev Portal and application registration can only be used with the default runtime group.

Reviewer: Specifically this should be "Application registration through Dev Portal can only be used with the default runtime group. This restriction will be removed in a future update to Konnect".

no_version: true
---

<!-- vale off -->

The updates contained in this topic apply to {{site.konnect_saas}},
an application that lets you manage configuration for multiple runtimes
from a single, cloud-based control plane, and provides a catalog of all deployed
services.

## July 2022

### date TBA

**New environment for {{site.konnect_short_name}}**
: {{site.konnect_short_name}} is now available at [cloud.konghq.com](https://cloud.konghq.com), which replaces the [konnect.konghq.com](https://konnect.konghq.com) environment. The environment at `konnect.konghq.com` will no longer receive any updates, and will be deprecated in the near future.

: Existing organizations will be automatically upgraded to the new {{site.konnect_short_name}} environment over the next 4-6 weeks. We will be contacting your organization administrator with more details on the upgrade process.

: You can continue using your `konnect.konghq.com` account and wait until we migrate it, or create a new account and [manually migrate configuration to the new account](/konnect/getting-started/import).

> : The minimum supported {{site.base_gateway}} version in this environment is 2.5.0.1.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The minimum supported {{site.base_gateway}} version for this environment is 2.5.0.1.
```

This may be wrong if I'm misunderstanding the environment paradigm

**Runtime groups**
: {{site.konnect_short_name}} now manages all runtime configuration through runtime groups, which provide the ability to securely isolate configuration for sets of runtime instances. Essentially,  this gives you multiple SaaS-managed control planes in one {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization.

: Every organization starts with one `default` runtime group. Additional custom runtime groups are an Enterprise-only feature.

: Learn more about [runtime groups](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups), then read up on how to manage them with the [{{site.konnect_short_name}} UI](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups/manage) or with [decK](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups/declarative-config).

: With runtime groups come a few other changes to runtime management for all organizations:

>   * Improvements with certificate rotation and management:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Certificate rotation and management:
```
feel free to ignore this.

    * When setting up runtime instances through the {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI, certificates are generated in the browser and pushed to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} API.
    * {{site.konnect_short_name}} doesn't require CA certificates for runtime instances anymore.

>     * The validity period for runtime instance certificates has been extended from six months ten years.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * The validity period for runtime instance certificates has been extended from six months to ten years.
```

  * Reworked Gateway configuration UI:
    * The Shared Config menu is now part of Runtime Manager. Manage your Gateway services, routes, plugins, upstreams, SNIs, and certificates through a runtime group, alongside all of the runtime instances in that group.
  * You can use [labels for categorizing runtime groups](/konnect/runtime-manager/runtime-groups/manage).
  Labels are key:value pairs, and are helpful for organizing, searching, and filtering subsets of {{site.konnect_short_name}} entities.

**Teams and roles**
: You can now manage {{site.konnect_short_name}} authorization with [teams and roles](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles).
Existing RBAC roles have been converted to [predefined teams](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles/teams-reference), which are available for all {{site.konnect_short_name}} organizations.

> : Invite users and add them to these teams to manage user access. You can also assign individual roles per user.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: To manage user access invite users to {{site.konnect_short_name}} and add them to teams, or assign individual roles to a user. 
```
the "manage user access" part felt odd where it was. I read it as conditional, so I figured it might sound better in the front.

> : With a {{site.konnect_short_name}}t Enterprise subscription, you can also [create custom teams](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles/manage) and assign per-entity permissions for each team.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: With a {{site.konnect_short_name}} enterprise subscription, you can also [create custom teams](/konnect/org-management/teams-and-roles/manage) and assign per-entity permissions for each team.
```

Author: Can't set this to lowercase when it's referring to a plan name. I've had PMs comment on the opposite in the past.

Adjusting this comment to grab the typo fix but not capitalization.

**Tags for {{site.konnect_short_name}} services**
: You can now connect {{site.konnect_short_name}} services to Gateway services with the [`_KonnectService` tag](/deck/latest/guides/konnect/#konnect-service-tags).

**{{site.konnect_short_name}} UI/UX redesign**
: The {{site.konnect_short_name}} UI now has reworked navigation, refreshed colors and styles, and a focus on consistent interactions throughout the application.

: Navigation redesign details:
  * Services is renamed to Service Hub
  * Runtimes is renamed to Runtime Manager
  * Shared Config is now part of Runtime Manager
  * Dev Portal settings have moved from the general settings page to the Dev Portal section
  * Refreshed iconography for the main menu

**Dev Portal default theme**
: The Dev Portal now comes with a new default theme: "Mint Rocket".

**Dev Portal SSO support with your own IdP**
: You can now configure custom identity providers (IdPs) for the Dev Portal.
: See the [SSO documentation](/konnect/dev-portal/customization/#single-sign-on) for more information.

**Simplified custom Dev Portal URL setup**
: SSL certificate generation for custom URLs is now handled by {{site.konnect_short_name}}.

> : To set up a custom URL, enter your desired custom portal URL in the Dev Portal settings (for example, `portal.example.com`) and set up a CNAME record to the {{site.konnect_short_name}} organization's Dev Portal domain. See the [Dev Portal customization doc](/konnect/dev-portal/customization) for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: To set up a custom URL see the [Dev Portal customization documentation](/konnect/dev-portal/customization) for more information.
```
Simplifying here. The way it is currently written makes me feel like I can just enter any custom URL into Konnect and Konnect will do all of the registration for me within the application.

**Vitals metrics and dashboards**
: The Vitals overview dashboard now provides metrics for services cataloged by Service Hub within a selected time interval.
You can view a graph for each category by clicking **Traffic** or **Errors**, and switching between the two views. Each graph is filterable by time frame.

: In the Service Hub, graphs for services and routes now show data up to the last 30 days.

**Vitals custom reports** <span class="badge alpha"></span>

: Through the Vitals menu, you can create custom reports to track API calls based on services, routes, or applications.

: See the [custom reports documentation](/konnect/vitals/generate-reports) for more information.

**Custom plugin requirements have changed**
: Some custom plugin limitations have changed or been removed.
See the latest requirements in the [plugin doc](/konnect/servicehub/plugins).

: Custom plugins can't be added directly through the {{site.konnect_saas}} application.
If you have a custom plugin you want to use in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, contact [Kong Support](https://support.konghq.com/).

**Refactored documentation**

> : The {{site.konnect_short_name}} documentation has been refactored to match the new {{site.konnect_short_name}} navigation, and generally reworked to provide a better experience for {{site.konnect_short_name}} users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
: The {{site.konnect_short_name}} documentation has been refactored to match the new {{site.konnect_short_name}} navigation, and generally reworked to provide a better experience for {{site.konnect_short_name}} users. Let us know what you think! 
```

Reviewer 2: Is this too self-servicing?

Author: Nope, it works. But where are they going to let us know? I know we have github issues and the feedback widget; we don't actively monitor either one at the moment (although I know we plan to revive that).

Reviewer 2: How about team-docs@konhq.com

**Known issues/limitations**
: The `cloud.konghq.com` environment has the following restrictions:
  * Application registration through Dev Portal can only be used with the default runtime group. This restriction will be removed in a future update to {{site.konnect_short_name}}.
  * The following plugins are not supported:
    * OAuth2 Authentication
    * Apache OpenWhisk
    * Vault Auth
    * DeGraphQL
    * GraphQL Rate Limiting Advanced
    * Key Authentication Encrypted

>   * decK does not support authenticating against Runtime Groups when single sign-on (SSO) is enabled.

Author: I don't think so. The messaging around the API is that it's there for you if you know how to figure it out, but we're not documenting it officially yet.

>   * decK does not support authenticating against Runtime Groups when single sign-on (SSO) is enabled.

Reviewer 2: sounds good
